In this video we're going to go through the basics of Dependency Injection. There's a little saying
out there by John. I'm not sure how you say that last name.
Munsch and I probably butchering that. I'm sorry John.
Dependency Injection for five year olds.
So when you go and get things out of the refrigerator yourself, you can cause problems. You might leave
the door open, you might get something that mommy and daddy doesn't want you to have.
You might even be looking for something we don't have.
Or has expired.
What you should be doing is stating the need.
I need something to drink with lunch and then we will make sure that you have something when you sit
down to eat.
So this is effectively Dependency Injection for five year olds. So your class is going to have a
dependency and you are asking the framework to provide that dependency.
Your class doesn't have to think about it.
You don't have to think about it.
The framework is going to provide that needed object for you. So Dependency Injection is where a needed
dependency is injected by another object or by a framework such as Spring. The class being injected
does not have the responsibility to instantiate that object being injected.
So some want to say that you avoid declaring objects using the new keyword. And I don't think this is
entirely correct. Because there are times where you are going to be creating new objects inside of
your code.
There is still very much a valid use case for it. But if you think about a database connection, that is
a fairly expensive and complex object to create and this is an ideal thing that you can have injected
so you might have an application that with technology such as Hibernate, it makes it easy to connect to
an H2 in-memory database or MySQL database and effectively the only thing that is changing is that
database connection.
So this is an ideal use case for using a Dependency Injection framework.
So your class at runtime that is getting data from the database doesn't necessarily have to care if
it is getting it from a MySQL database, an H2 database, Informix database.
I think Informix is still around.
So this allows your class to be abstracted so it's only asking for that data source.
It doesn't have to care about the configuration of that data source that is being pushed off to the
framework to manage that object for you.
Now there are several different types of Dependency Injection that we will see in this course.
You can do Dependency Injection right against class properties.
This is the least preferred method.
These properties can be public or private and I don't particularly like injecting it against private
properties.
I think that as evil. It does cause problems downstream such as testing. How do you actually inject a dependency
into a private property using it against unit test.
There is a way to do it but it does take extra work. So it does create some headaches.
Then the next way is to use setters.
So we've all seen POJOs that have properties and then we set up getters and setters for it.
That is also an option. And then also you have by constructor and this is the most preferred method.
There's been a lot of debate between setters and constructors.
When I first started using the Spring Framework, constructor injection was a little bit problematic. That
has really matured.
It's no longer an issue. And in my early days of Spring, I actually preferred using setters over constructors.
I have now come around to the camp. But first to use constructors over setters.
So there is still some debate in this area but generally the community agrees the constructors is the
most preferable method to do
Dependency Injection. Now Concrete Classes versus Interfaces. Dependency injection can be done with Concrete
Classes or Interfaces.
Generally you want to be avoiding Concrete Classes.
This is not really the best practice. Using Dependency Injection with Interfaces is the most preferred.
It allows the runtime to decide the implementation to inject.
It also follows the information the interface segregation principle of the SOLID object oriented principles
and it makes your code more testable.
Remember the previous example I was talking about a data source. So data source is a standard interface
inside of Java and then database vendors provide that implementation.
So by using that data source you can change that underlying implementation of it to an Oracle database
or MySQL database or any relational database that is going to provide that implementation of a data
source can be swapped out because you are using an Interface.
Next we need to talk about Inversion of Control also known as IoC.
This is a technique to allow dependencies to be injected at runtime. So the dependencies are not predetermined.
You get to remember that the Inversion of Control, what's happening is your classes in a runtime environment
and the class itself is not controlling the injection. It's not asking for anything.
The control is being done by the framework. So Springs
containers often called an Inversion Control Container because a container in the context is going to
be determining what gets injected as a dependency into your classes.
And then there's a quote from Ralph Johnson and Brian Foote. One important characteristic of a framework
is that the methods defined by the user to tailor the framework will often be called within the framework
itself rather than from the user's application code.
The framework often plays the role of the main program in coordinating and sequencing application activity.
This inversion of control gives frameworks the power to serve as extensible skeletons.
The methods supplied by the user to tailor genetic algorithms defined in the framework for a particular
application.
This basically is saying that the framework is going to control most of the activity bringing up the structure.
You are going to be providing code to fulfill the business logic. So that's where the Spring Framework
becomes so powerful because you are not worried about a lot of things. You are really allows you to
focus on the business logic that you have to implement for a specific scenario.
Now IoC versus Dependency Injection inversion of control and dependency injection aren't easily confuse
especially when you're new to this. Dependency Injection refers much to the composition of your
classes. So you're going to compose your classes with Dependency Injection in mind.
So data source again. You're going to provide a constructor to your class for a data source to be injected.
Version control is the actual runtime environment of your code. So we talked about Springs and version could
control container.
Spring is in control of the injection.
So Dependency Injection is how you write your classes. Inversion of Control is the runtime when the injection
is actually happening.
So the inversion control determines what objects to actually inject.
Now some best practices. Get this as is quite frequently.
What are the best practices? You do have a number of options here.
What you should be doing is favor using a constructor based injection over setter injection. Definitely
over Broperty based injection.
Also a good habit to use final properties for injected components. So if you are injecting that data source
again as
example, you want to be using a final property for that data source so nothing inside that class can
actually change it at least in theory.
So just a little bit safety to use features of the Java programming language like that. And also I'm
saying whenever practical code to an interface. There are times where you're going to have to.
It might be more convenient to code to a specific type but whenever practical code to interface that's
considered generally the best practice when we are developing applications using the Spring Framework
and performing Dependency Injection.